# Mini-Project: Central Jersey Transit Network

The fictional Central Jersey Regional Transit Authority has released the given rail system maps as a hybrid between a rapid transit system and commuter rail system (similar to the way BART operates). 

At the beginning of this project, I imagined that the New Brunswick/Amboy area would act as its own urban center, given its close proximity to many waterways. This regional transit system would then serve people in the New Brunswick-metro area as well as commuters to NYC. However, as I continued plotting stations out, the locations tended to align closer and closer to what might be a realistic commuter rail network. In fact, without using the NJT map as a guide to my project, many of the stations ended up being very similar. In this project, we are still imagining that Central Jersey is a densely populated urban area and not full of suburbs. 

## Improvements to the current NJT system

* The south branch of the Red Line offers express service to Six Flags, which improves New Jersey's tourism revenue and allows people to commute to work easily. During seasonal downtimes, service can be reduced and Freehold be made the terminus of the Red Line. 
* The south branches of the purple and green lines offer increased service to communities along the current NEC who still must commute using cars to train stations in New Brunswick, Jersey Ave, or Princeton Jct. Though there is a new NJT station being constructed at North Brunswick, access is still lacking for many relatively dense areas along the NEC. 
* The new rail system will use rapid-transit style railcars and will operate at higher speeds than the current NJT commuter rail system. This improves commute times and makes public transit a more desireable option. 
* I tried to include as many college campuses as possible in this plan, as improved educational opportunities improve society as a whole. This connects previously inaccessible institutions such as CUNY-College of Staten Island, Wagner College, St. John's University; provides more direct access to institutions such as Rider, TCNJ, Monmouth University, RVCC, and Mercer CC; and provides inter-campus train service to Rutgers-New Brunswick. 
* Service to central Staten Island is also improved through a second rail branch to the current Staten Island Railway (Staten Island was included here because it's more similar to Central Jersey than New York). Tunnel service is provided directly from St. George to Brooklyn, such that ferry commutes are no longer required. A rail bridge is included on the Verrazzano bridge to add an extra entry point to Brooklyn. 

## Disadvantages

* After looking at the NJT transit map, I realize that many of the lines are similar, but with less stops along the way. For example, many northern shore points are accessed on the current NJCL. I would add extra stops between Red Bank and Pt. Pleasant. Consider though, that if this is the rapid transit system, the actual commuter rail path would be much farther reaching. Consider also that stations can be added along anywhere on any line with relative ease. 
* I might also consider adding stations along the southern Green and Purple lines, given their current high population density, which would be even higher in an imaginary metro area. Same goes for the northern Blue Line. 
* The Civil Engineering aspects of adding an extra rail line in Staten Island have not been considered. Central Staten Island between Aspen Knolls and CUNY-CSI seems to be full of wetland-type terrain, which could pose challeges to constructing railways there. 
* Princeton University and the town of Princeton tends to fall directly in the center of the rectangle formed by South Brunswick, PJC, BMS/Lawrence North, and Princeton North. Perhaps a BRT line should be added to downtown Princeton and Princeton U, or something similar to the current Dinky Shuttle could be used. 
* There is no direct service to New York City downtown; a transfer is required. Additionally, one of the things I would like to see with the current NEC is direct downtown service to Philadelphia, which I was not able to include here. Perhaps, SEPTA should improve rapid transit service directly to Trenton. 
